[RFC][WIP] A more scalable pulse visualizer (#19)
Qiskit/rfcs: 0000-new_pulse_drawer.md

Note that pulse waveform should consider the phase instructions.
This is done by calling `waveform` method.
Each `ndarray` in the list represents a pulse envelope of each `Play` instruction.
The interval between `Play` instructions should be padded by `Delay` and this appears as long zero array with the length of the interval in terms of system cycle time (not actual pulse time).
This is because we need to truncate long pulses or long delays based on `truncate` preference in the style sheet.
If we output the entire waveform as a single data array it is very hard to recover a length of each pulse.
The method `max_amp` and `min_amp` are used to determine the autoscaling value of the channel.

First the `schedule_drawer_core` initialize `EventsOutputChannels` for all channels specified by the user input and the style sheet preference and keep them as a python `dict`. Then, those channels are rearanged as a `list` according to the `layout` option in the style sheet. If `'layout': 'channel-type-wise'` is specified, the program collects all `DriveChannel`s in the dictionary and then collects `ControlChannel`s, ... , so that channels of the same type are shown in one group.

> In `utils.py` several helper functions are defined to extract information and coordinate to show from the `EventsOutputChannels`.

Reviewer: Does this need to be in a utils module? Could it just live in one of the other modules?

> This is a big change from current implementation (but not impact to users) such that existing huge callback function is decomposed into small pieces which can be unittested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is a big change from the current implementation (but not impactful to users) such that existing huge callback function is decomposed into small pieces which can be unittested.
```

For example,

```python
def get_labels(manager: EventsOutputChannels) -> List[Tuple[Tuple[float, float], str]]:
  # return coordinate and name of each pulse instruction
  pass
```

> this is the callback function to extract a set of pulse names (sometime formatting names by request) and the coordinate to draw of each pulse in the `EventsOutputChannels`.

Reviewer: These are just functions, not `callback function`. A [callback](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Callback_(computer_programming)) has a specific meaning.

The `pulse_drawer_core` has much simple structure because it just need to call `.samples` method of given `SamplePulse` instance and draw the returned `ndarray`.

The entire work can be separated into several small PRs.

### Phase1: Update `EventsOutputChannels`
This is the fundamental element of the schedule drawer and thus this should be implemented first.
Since the input is existing pulse `Schedule` there is no dependency on another drawer components.
We can prepare the unittest for this object.

### Phase2: Add utility functions
Utility functions have dependency on `EventsOutputChannels`.
These are candidates of callback function we need to implement:

+ `get_labels`: return label of each pulse
+ `get_max_values`: return maximum value of each pulse
+ `get_min_values`: return minimum value of each pulse
+ `get_lengths`: return length of each pulse
+ `get_phases`: return phase change/set instruction
+ `get_frequencies`: return frequency change/set instruction
+ `get_snapshots`: return snapshot instruction
+ `scale_waveform`: apply scaling to pulses
+ `truncate_waveform`: truncate long waveform and delay

We can prepare unittest for those functions as well.

> ### Phase3: Add style sheets

Reviewer: I am unclear how the stylesheets will be implemented and I believe this has an impact on the implementation discussed above. From my understanding, it seems you wish these to be truly configurable. There really are two options, they define fixed-configuration settings and the code above reads these and does what it will. Or the stylesheet provides functionality implementations via dependency injection which is more work to implement but more flexible in the long run. When you mention regexes that is what this evoked in my mind but it is unclear.

Author: You're right. The design of style sheet will influence the implementation of functions. I'll update this part.

> There really are two options,

I agree with the second option gives us a huge degree of freedom, but I think the first option is more preferable because of two reasons.

1. security risk
I assume style sheets are serializable so that they can be easily shared among external communities. Thus code injection is not considered and all dependencies will be packed into `drawing_engine.py` (previously I call it `utils.py`) because they are tested and the code is trustable.
In CSS community, some security risks are reported due to code injection.
https://www.netsparker.com/blog/web-security/private-data-stolen-exploiting-css-injection/

2. maintainability
I experienced pickled object is very sensitive to version change and they are prone to be broken by major update. I think style sheets should be stable over code changes. This discussion realized me to add `to_dict` and `from_dict` method to base style sheet class.

Reviewer: 1. I don't see a reason that they have to be serializable, this seems like a lot of effort to guarantee for little payoff. Consider [YAGNI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/You_aren%27t_gonna_need_it)
2. This same point seems to consider you're serializing it?

Regardless I think we are proposing two separate and mutually inclusive ways of configuration. The second way I was proposing is a dependency injection pattern and would lead to more customizable and extendable plotters.

Author: I think the value of stylesheets is the sharability so that everyone can easily reproduce one's work, or we can save favorite custom config in the file and save the time for writing code in every notebook. So serialization is good approach because serialized data has a little possibility to execute malicious code. And injected code, or callback function, cannot be saved as a file. Maintainability another reason.

I agree the code injection can extend the ability of plotter, but for me it sounds like add-on or pulgin software. How do you think the below example?

```python
.draw(style=my_favorite_style, add_on=[format_pulse_name, add_scroll_bar])
```

In this way we can share the stylesheet with colleagues while keeping extendability of the plotter by code injection.

Maybe I don't understand the _injection pattern_ correctly.

The style sheet doesn't have any dependency so we can start implementation of them at anytime we want.
These are candidates of style sheets we need to implement:

+ `iqx_debugging`: show every details of the pulse, may return very busy plot
+ `iqx_standard`: show instruction level information to understand the overview of program, small details are ignored
+ `iqx_publication`: show minimum information to make clean plot for publication

### Phase4: Add core function and interface
With all of above PRs we can start implementing main part of drawer.
The unittest for `matplotlib.Figure` output is skipped in the current testing framework.
We need to check the output of figure by our eyes.

## Alternative Approaches
N/A

## Questions

> + How old drawer can be deprecated? Becase interface will change drastically, I feel introducing new drawer independently to old one is easier.

Reviewer: So long as calling it without arguments is still possible we can replace the old drawer and break code for such a big change. We can introduce the new drawer slowly with a different function name such as `drawv2` to test over time.
